[IMP] Settings: Add/Remove Apps Content Rewrite (#12302)
odoo/documentation: content/applications/general/apps_modules.rst

Apps and modules
================

:ref:`Install <general/install>`, :ref:`upgrade <general/upgrade>` and :ref:`uninstall
<general/uninstall>` any needed apps and modules from the :menuselection:`Apps` dashboard.

> To get here from the database home page, By default, an *Apps* filter is applied. To search for

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, an *Apps* filter is applied. To search for
```

modules, click on *Filters* and select *Extra*.

.. image:: apps_modules/apps-search-filter.png
   :alt: Add "Extra" filter in Odoo Apps.

.. warning::

>    Odoo is *not a smartphone*, and its apps should not be installed or uninstalled carelessly. Apply

Reviewer: Optional, but I would suggest removing this original first sentence entirely. It's unnecessary and comes across as condescending to the customer in my opinion.

   caution when adding or removing apps and modules on the Odoo database since this may impact
   subscription costs.

>    - **Administrators Manage Database Apps**: The administrator of the database is responsible for

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - **Administrators manage the database**: The administrator of the database is responsible for
```

     its usage, as they know best how their organization works.

>    - **Odoo Apps Can Have Dependencies**: Installing some apps and features with dependencies may

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - **Odoo apps can have dependencies**: Installing some apps and features with dependencies may
```

     also install additional apps and modules that are technically required, even if database users
     do not actively use them.

>    - **Duplicate the Database to Test Apps**: Testing on a duplicate database reveals what app

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - **Duplicate the database to test apps**: Testing on a duplicate database reveals what app
```

>      dependencies may be required or what database|may be erased. Learn how to duplicate an

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     dependencies may be required or what database may be erased. Learn how to duplicate an
```

     :doc:`Odoo Online database <../../administration/odoo_online>` or an :doc:`Odoo On-premise
     database <../../administration/on_premise>`.

.. _general/install:

Install apps and modules
========================

> From the database home page, click on the :guilabel:`Apps` app, and then click on the search bar to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
From the database home page, click on the :guilabel:`Apps` app, then click on the search bar to
```

find the app to be installed or scroll to find it. From here, click :guilabel:`Activate` on the
app's card.

.. note::
   If the app or module to be installed is not listed, update the app list by activating
   :ref:`developer mode <developer-mode>`, and then click on the :guilabel:`Apps`. Then, in the top
   navigation menu, click :menuselection:`Update Apps List`, and then click :guilabel:`Update`.

.. _general/upgrade:

Upgrade apps and modules
========================

On some occasions, new improvements or app features are added to :doc:`supported versions of Odoo
</administration/supported_versions>`. Upgrade the app to use these new improvements and features.

> From the database home page, click on the :guilabel:`Apps` app, and then click on the search bar to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
From the database home page, click on the :guilabel:`Apps` app, then click on the search bar to
```

find the app to be upgraded or scroll to find it. Then, on the app's card, click
:icon:`fa-ellipsis-v` :guilabel:`(vertical ellipsis)`, and the click :guilabel:`Upgrade`.

.. _general/uninstall:

Uninstall apps and modules
==========================

When an app is no longer needed and another app does not depend on it (e.g., uninstalling the
**Point of Sale** app also uninstalls the **Restaurant** app if it is installed), uninstall it from
the database.

.. danger::
   This will delete database records that are stored in that app. Test uninstalling the app on a
   duplicated database before it is removed on the real database.

From the database home page, click on the :guilabel:`Apps` app, and then click on the search bar to
find the app to be uninstalled or scroll to find it. Then, on the app's card, click

> :icon:`fa-ellipses-v` :guilabel:`Menu`, and click :guilabel:`Uninstall`. From here, read the

Reviewer 2: It looks like the Vale linter didn’t show up for me at first, but I believe it only corrects the descriptor when the icon is formatted this way: :icon:[blabla] :guilabel:blalbla descriptor icon.

```suggestion
the :icon:`fa-ellipsis-v` :guilabel:`(vertical ellipsis)` icon, and click :guilabel:`Uninstall`. From here, read the
```

This should ensure the linter catches it properly and the descriptor aligns with the team's standard!

Reviewer 2: ![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/f5052c8e-eb16-441d-833c-e12efaed2c4f)

> :icon:`fa-ellipses-v` :guilabel:`Menu`, and the click :guilabel:`Uninstall`. From here, read the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:icon:`fa-ellipses-v` :guilabel:`Menu`, and click :guilabel:`Uninstall`. From here, read the
```

Apps and modules
================

:ref:`Install <general/install>`, :ref:`upgrade <general/upgrade>` and :ref:`uninstall
<general/uninstall>` any needed apps and modules from the :menuselection:`Apps` dashboard.

> By default, an *Apps* filter is applied. To search for
> modules, click on *Filters* and select *Extra*.

Reviewer 3: UI text should be formatted with a :guilabel:.

Also the instruction to click "Filter" is not correct, since "Filters" is a section.

I suggest rewriting to:
```suggestion
By default, an :guilabel:`Apps` filter is applied. To search for modules too, select
:guilabel:`Extra` from the :icon:`fa-filter` :guilabel:`Filters`.
```

.. image:: apps_modules/apps-search-filter.png
   :alt: Add "Extra" filter in Odoo Apps.

.. warning::
   Adding or removing apps can significantly affect other apps in the database and modify
   subscription costs. Consider carefully or test the changes in a staging environment before
   proceeding.

   - **Administrators manage the database**: The administrator of the database is responsible for
     its usage, as they know best how their organization works.
   - **Odoo apps can have dependencies**: Installing some apps and features with dependencies may
     also install additional apps and modules that are technically required, even if database users
     do not actively use them.
   - **Duplicate the database to test apps**: Testing on a duplicate database reveals what app
     dependencies may be required or what database may be erased. Learn how to duplicate an
     :doc:`Odoo Online database <../../administration/odoo_online>` or an :doc:`Odoo On-premise
     database <../../administration/on_premise>`.

.. _general/install:

Install apps and modules
========================

> From the database home page, click on the :guilabel:`Apps` app, then click on the search bar to

Reviewer 3: "Main Odoo dashboard" is preferred over "database home page" :) and please use a menuselection when directing the user to an app
```suggestion
From the main Odoo dashboard, open the :menuselection:`Apps` app, then click on the search bar to
```

find the app to be installed or scroll to find it. From here, click :guilabel:`Activate` on the
app's card.

.. note::
   If the app or module to be installed is not listed, update the app list by activating

>    :ref:`developer mode <developer-mode>`, and then click on the :guilabel:`Apps`. Then, in the top
>    navigation menu, click :menuselection:`Update Apps List`, and then click :guilabel:`Update`.

Reviewer 3: This navigation instruction is not correct, with dev mode enabled, the user just has to go to Apps app then select Update Apps List from the menu
```suggestion
   :ref:`developer mode <developer-mode>`, and then go to :menuselection:`Apps --> Update Apps
   List`, and then click :guilabel:`Update`.
```

.. _general/upgrade:

Upgrade apps and modules
========================

> With each :doc:`new Odoo release </administration/supported_versions>` (e.g., 17.3, 18.0), new
> improvements or app features are added. Upgrade the app to use these new improvements and features.

Reviewer 3: I dont think there is a need to state any specific versions here, as the linked _supported_versions_ doc provides that additional context
```suggestion
With each :doc:`new Odoo release </administration/supported_versions>`, new improvements or app
features are added. Upgrade the app to use these new improvements and features.
```

> From the database home page, click on the :guilabel:`Apps` app, then click on the search bar to
> find the app to be upgraded or scroll to find it. Then, on the app's card, click the
> :icon:`fa-ellipsis-v` :guilabel:`(vertical ellipsis)` icon, and the click :guilabel:`Upgrade`.

Reviewer 3: Im suggesting to use more direct wording:
```suggestion
Go to :menuselection:`Apps` and then on the app to upgrade, click the :icon:`fa-ellipsis-v`
:guilabel:`(vertical ellipsis)` icon and select :guilabel:`Upgrade`.
```

.. _general/uninstall:

Uninstall apps and modules
==========================

> When an app is no longer needed and another app does not depend on it, uninstall it from
> the database.
> 

Reviewer 3: I'm not sure we want to suggest this, as it could lead to users uninstalling apps that they don't think they need but do actually use in some way or another
```suggestion
```

.. danger::

>    This will delete database records that are stored in that app. Test uninstalling the app on a
>    duplicated database before it is removed on the real database.

Reviewer 3: I suggest using more direct language here:
```suggestion
   Uninstalling apps also deletes their database records. Test uninstalling apps on a duplicated
   database before removing apps on a production database.
```

> From the database home page, click on the :guilabel:`Apps` app, and then click on the search bar to
> find the app to be uninstalled or scroll to find it. Then, on the app's card, click
> :icon:`fa-ellipsis-v` :guilabel:`(vertical ellipsis)` icon, and click :guilabel:`Uninstall`. From
> here, read the warning message, and then click :guilabel:`Uninstall`.

Reviewer 3: Again suggesting to be more direct, as well as detailed in this step. The Uninstall module modal has a few sections that are worth explaining in detail:
```suggestion
.. note::
   Some apps have dependencies, meaning that one app requires another. Therefore, uninstalling one
   app may uninstall multiple apps and modules.

Go to :menuselection:`Apps` and then on the app to uninstall, click the :icon:`fa-ellipsis-v`
:guilabel:`(vertical ellipsis)` icon and select :guilabel:`Uninstall` to open the
:guilabel:`Uninstall module` pop-up window.

The :guilabel:`Apps to Uninstall` section lists the applications that will be uninstalled.

.. tip::
   Select the :guilabel:`Show All` checkbox to display all module dependencies.

The :guilabel:`Documents to Delete` section lists the database records that will be deleted.

To proceed with uninstalling the app, its dependencies, and all related database records, click
:guilabel:`Uninstall`.
```

.. image:: apps_modules/uninstall.png
   :alt: An app's card with the "Uninstall" menu option highlighted.

Some apps have dependencies, meaning that one app requires another. Therefore, uninstalling one app
may uninstall multiple apps and modules. Odoo provides a warning message showing which dependent
apps and modules are affected by it as well as what database records get removed if the
uninistallation is completed.

.. example::
   The **Restaurant** app requires the **Point of Sale** app to function, so uninstalling the

>    **Point of Sale** app will also uninstall the **Restaurant** app.

Reviewer 3: Additional information :)
```suggestion
   **Point of Sale** app will also uninstall the **Restaurant** app, and any related records.
```

.. note::
   Some apps have dependencies, meaning that one app requires another. Therefore, uninstalling one
   app may uninstall multiple apps and modules.

Go to :menuselection:`Apps` and then on the app to uninstall, click the :icon:`fa-ellipsis-v`
:guilabel:`(vertical ellipsis)` icon and select :guilabel:`Uninstall` to open the
:guilabel:`Uninstall module` pop-up window.

The :guilabel:`Apps to Uninstall` section lists the applications that will be uninstalled.

.. tip::
   Select the :guilabel:`Show All` checkbox to display all module dependencies.

The :guilabel:`Documents to Delete` section lists the database records that will be deleted.

To proceed with uninstalling the app, its dependencies, and all related database records, click
:guilabel:`Uninstall`.

.. image:: apps_modules/uninstall.png
   :alt: An app's card with the "Uninstall" menu option highlighted.

Some apps have dependencies, meaning that one app requires another. Therefore, uninstalling one app
may uninstall multiple apps and modules. Odoo provides a warning message showing which dependent
apps and modules are affected by it as well as what database records get removed if the

> uninistallation is completed.

Reviewer 3: You can remove this paragraph since it is covered in the note we added and the instructions above :) 

If you do keep this, please correct "uninistallation" to "uninstallation" :)

.. example::
   The **Restaurant** app requires the **Point of Sale** app to function, so uninstalling the
   **Point of Sale** app will also uninstall the **Restaurant** app, and any related records.

> .. image:: apps_modules/uninstall-deps.png
>    :alt: A warning message showing apps that are uninstalled if the uninstallation is completed.

Reviewer 3: Indent this image to be included in the related example admonition :)
```suggestion
   .. image:: apps_modules/uninstall-deps.png
      :alt: A warning message showing apps that are uninstalled if the uninstallation is completed.
```
